---

copyright:
  years: 2018,2019
lastupdated: "2019-12-05"

---

{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# Refreshing Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes cert-manager certificates

The Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes Certificate manager service automatically refreshes certificates that are going to expire.

* [Manually refreshing your certificates](#manual_refresh)
* [Disable restarting your service when a certificate is refreshed](#disable_restart)

## Manually refreshing your certificates
{: #manual_refresh}

Certificates that are generated by Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes Certificate manager can be refreshed before Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes Certificate manager tries to refresh them by following these steps:

1. Determine the name of the Secret associated with your certificate. This information can be found by using the `kubectl get certificate` command and noting the namespace and Secret name next to your certificate.

   ```
   kubectl get certificate --all-namespaces
   ```
   {: codeblock}

2. Delete the Secret associated with the certificate you want to refresh.

   ```
   kubectl delete secret <secret name> -n <namespace>
   ```
   {: codeblock}

  **NOTE**: Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes Certificate manager re-creates the Secret for that certificate and automatically restarts any Pods associated with any Deployment, StatefulSet, and DaemonSet that uses that certificate.

  **NOTE**: When you refresh your certificate, you reset the `duration` and `renewBefore` values of your new certificate. Unless your new certificate specifies values for the `duration` and `renewBefore` parameters, the following defaults are applied:
 - `duration` value of `90` days
 - `renewBefore` value of `30` days

3. Wait for all the services that use that Secret to restart.

## Disable restarting your service when a certificate is refreshed
{: #disable_restart}

When you refresh a certificate by using Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes Certificate manager service, it automatically restarts any Pods associated with any Deployment, StatefulSet, and DaemonSet that uses that Certificate.

You can disable this feature if you do not want Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes Certificate manager to restart the Pods associated with your Deployment, StatefulSet, or DaemonSet.

To disable the feature, provide the annotation `certmanager.k8s.io/disable-auto-restart: "true"` on your Kubernetes Deployment, StatefulSet, or DaemonSet yaml definition. For example,
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: nginx-deployment
  annotations:
    certmanager.k8s.io/disable-auto-restart: "true"
...
```
{: codeblock}

**DISCLAIMER**: When Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes Certificate manager restarts your service, extra ReplicaSets are created. There can be old ReplicaSets that are left over. To mitigate the problem of extra unused ReplicaSets, set the `spec.revisionHistoryLimit` in your Deployment to a reasonable number. If the `spec.revisionHistoryLimit` is not set, the default value is 10. For more information, see the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/#clean-up-policy).
